

ABOUT_CIMSESSION


Short description

Describes a CIMSESSION object and the difference between CIM sessions and
PowerShell sessions.


Long description

  This information only applies to PowerShell running on Windows.

A Common Information Model (CIM) session is a client-side object that
represents a connection to a local computer or a remote computer. You can
use CIM sessions as an alternative to PowerShell sessions (PSSessions).
Both approaches have advantages.

You can use the New-CimSession cmdlet on a Windows computer to create a CIM
session that contains information about a connection, such as computer
name, the protocol used for the connection, session ID, and instance ID.

After you create a CIMSESSION object that specifies information required to
establish a connection, PowerShell does not establish the connection
immediately. When a cmdlet uses the CIM session, PowerShell connects to the
specified computer, and then, when the cmdlet finishes, PowerShell
terminates the connection.

If you create a PSSESSION instead of using a CIM session, PowerShell
validates connection settings, and then establishes and maintains the
connection. If you use CIM sessions, PowerShell does not open a network
connection until needed. For more information about PowerShell sessions,
see about_PSSessions.


When to use a CIM session

Only cmdlets that work with a Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)
provider or CIM over WS-Man accept CIM sessions. For other cmdlets, use
PSSESSIONS.

When you use a CIM session, PowerShell runs the cmdlet on the local client.
It connects to the WMI provider using the CIM session. The target computer
does not require PowerShell, or even any version of the Windows operating
system.

In contrast, a cmdlet run using a PSSESSION runs on the target computer. It
requires PowerShell on the target system. Furthermore, the cmdlet sends
data back to the local computer. PowerShell manages the data sent over the
connection, and keeps the size within the limits set by Windows Remote
Management (WinRM). CIM sessions do not impose the WinRM limits.


Using CDXML cmdlets

CIM-based Cmdlet Definition XML (CDXML) cmdlets can be written to use any
WMI Provider. All WMI providers use CIMSESSION objects. For more
information about CDXML, see CDXML definition and terms.

CDXML cmdlets have an automatic CIMSESSION parameter that can take an array
of CIMSESSION objects. By default, PowerShell limits number of concurrent
CIM Connections to 15. This limit can be overridden by CDXML cmdlets that
implement the THROTTLELIMIT. See the individual cmdlet documentation to
understand the THROTTLELIMIT.


See also

-   New-CimSession
-   about_PSSessions
