

ABOUT_PROMPTS


Short description

Describes the Prompt function and demonstrates how to create a custom
Prompt function.


Long description

The PowerShell command prompt indicates that PowerShell is ready to run a
command:

    PS C:\>

The PowerShell prompt is determined by the built-in Prompt function. You
can customize the prompt by creating your own Prompt function and saving it
in your PowerShell profile.


About the Prompt function

The Prompt function determines the appearance of the PowerShell prompt.
PowerShell comes with a built-in Prompt function, but you can override it
by defining your own Prompt function.

The Prompt function has the following syntax:

    function Prompt { <function-body> }

The Prompt function must return an object. As a best practice, return a
string or an object that is formatted as a string. The maximum recommended
length is 80 characters.

For example, the following Prompt function returns a "Hello, World" string
followed by a right angle bracket (>).

    PS C:\> function prompt {"Hello, World > "}
    Hello, World >

Getting the Prompt function

To get the Prompt function, use the Get-Command cmdlet or use the Get-Item
cmdlet in the Function drive.

For example:

    PS C:\> Get-Command Prompt

    CommandType     Name      ModuleName
    -----------     ----      ----------
    Function        prompt

To get the script that sets the value of the prompt, use the dot method to
get the SCRIPTBLOCK property of the Prompt function.

For example:

    (Get-Command Prompt).ScriptBlock

    "PS $($executionContext.SessionState.Path.CurrentLocation)$('>' * ($nestedPromptLevel + 1)) "
    # .Link
    # https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=225750
    # .ExternalHelp System.Management.Automation.dll-help.xml

Like all functions, the Prompt function is stored in the Function: drive.
To display the script that creates the current Prompt function, type:

    (Get-Item function:prompt).ScriptBlock

The default prompt

The default prompt appears only when the Prompt function generates an error
or does not return an object.

The default PowerShell prompt is:

    PS>

For example, the following command sets the Prompt function to $null, which
is invalid. As a result, the default prompt appears.

    PS C:\> function prompt {$null}
    PS>

Because PowerShell comes with a built-in prompt, you usually do not see the
default prompt.

Built-in prompt

PowerShell includes a built-in Prompt function.

    function prompt {
        $(if (Test-Path variable:/PSDebugContext) { '[DBG]: ' }
          else { '' }) + 'PS ' + $(Get-Location) +
            $(if ($NestedPromptLevel -ge 1) { '>>' }) + '> '
    }

The function uses the Test-Path cmdlet to determine whether the
$PSDebugContext automatic variable is populated. If $PSDebugContext is
populated, you are in debugging mode, and [DBG]: is added to the prompt, as
follows:

    [DBG]: PS C:\ps-test>

If $PSDebugContext is not populated, the function adds PS to the prompt.
And, the function uses the Get-Location cmdlet to get the current file
system directory location. Then, it adds a right angle bracket (>).

For example:

    PS C:\ps-test>

If you are in a nested prompt, the function adds two angle brackets (>>) to
the prompt. You are in a nested prompt if the value of the
$NestedPromptLevel automatic variable is greater than 0.

For example, when you are debugging in a nested prompt, the prompt
resembles the following prompt:

    [DBG] PS C:\ps-test>>>

Changes to the prompt

The Enter-PSSession cmdlet prepends the name of the remote computer to the
current Prompt function. When you use the Enter-PSSession cmdlet to start a
session with a remote computer, the command prompt changes to include the
name of the remote computer. For example:

    PS Hello, World> Enter-PSSession Server01
    [Server01]: PS Hello, World>

Other PowerShell host applications and alternate shells might have their
own custom command prompts.

For more information about the $PSDebugContext and $NestedPromptLevel
automatic variables, see about_Automatic_Variables.

How to customize the prompt

To customize the prompt, write a new Prompt function. The function is not
protected, so you can overwrite it.

To write a Prompt function, type the following:

    function prompt { }

Then, between the braces, enter the commands or the string that creates
your prompt.

For example, the following prompt includes your computer name:

    function prompt {"PS [$env:COMPUTERNAME]> "}

On the Server01 computer, the prompt resembles the following prompt:

    PS [Server01] >

The following Prompt function includes the current date and time:

    function prompt {"$(Get-Date)> "}

The prompt resembles the following prompt:

    03/15/2012 17:49:47>

You can also change the default Prompt function:

For example, the following modified Prompt function adds [ADMIN]: to the
built-in PowerShell prompt when PowerShell is opened by using the RUN AS
ADMINISTRATOR option:

    function prompt {
      $identity = [Security.Principal.WindowsIdentity]::GetCurrent()
      $principal = [Security.Principal.WindowsPrincipal] $identity
      $adminRole = [Security.Principal.WindowsBuiltInRole]::Administrator

      $(if (Test-Path variable:/PSDebugContext) { '[DBG]: ' }
        elseif($principal.IsInRole($adminRole)) { "[ADMIN]: " }
        else { '' }
      ) + 'PS ' + $(Get-Location) +
        $(if ($NestedPromptLevel -ge 1) { '>>' }) + '> '
    }

When you start PowerShell by using the RUN AS ADMINISTRATOR option, a
prompt that resembles the following prompt appears:

    [ADMIN]: PS C:\ps-test>

The following Prompt function displays the history ID of the next command.
To view the command history, use the Get-History cmdlet.

    function prompt {
       # The at sign creates an array in case only one history item exists.
       $history = @(Get-History)
       if($history.Count -gt 0)
       {
          $lastItem = $history[$history.Count - 1]
          $lastId = $lastItem.Id
       }

       $nextCommand = $lastId + 1
       $currentDirectory = Get-Location
       "PS: $nextCommand $currentDirectory >"
    }

The following prompt uses the Write-Host and Get-Random cmdlets to create a
prompt that changes color randomly. Because Write-Host writes to the
current host application but does not return an object, this function
includes a Return statement. Without it, PowerShell uses the default
prompt, PS>.

    function prompt {
        $color = Get-Random -Min 1 -Max 16
        Write-Host ("PS " + $(Get-Location) +">") -NoNewLine `
         -ForegroundColor $Color
        return " "
    }

Saving the Prompt function

Like any function, the Prompt function exists only in the current session.
To save the Prompt function for future sessions, add it to your PowerShell
profiles. For more information about profiles, see about_Profiles.


See also

-   about_Automatic_Variables
-   about_Debuggers
-   about_Functions
-   about_Profiles
-   about_Scopes
-   Get-History
-   Write-Host
-   Get-Location
-   Enter-PSSession
-   Get-Random
